---
title: Two Wolves
date: Apr 4, 2020
url: https://nccf.church/Blog.aspx?BlogID=166
---

Galatians 6:7 *"Do not be deceived, God is not mocked; for whatever a man sows, this he will also reap."*

A STORY:

I once heard a simple children’s parable about two wolves:

A young boy once felt that he had two wolves inside of him. One wolf was good and the other was evil. Those two wolves were often fighting each other. When the good wolf would win the boy would do good (such as say a kind word, obey his parents, help someone, share his toys, and refrain from saying bad things). But when the bad wolf inside of him would win the boy wouldn't be able to control himself in the moment, and he would choose to do bad. The boy wanted to do good, but he didn’t know how to help the good wolf win.

So he asked his Dad about it, he told him of his struggle of the good and the bad wolves which were inside of him. And he asked his Dad, "How can I help the good wolf win, and the bad wolf to lose?" And his Dad said, "That's easy; ****the wolf that will win is the one you feed the most****. Feed the good wolf, and he will get stronger. Starve the bad wolf and he will get weaker. Then the good wolf will win."

I believe the moral of this story is what was written in the Bible 2000 years ago:

*“For the one who sows to his own flesh will from the flesh reap corruption, but the one who sows to the Spirit will from the Spirit reap eternal life. Let us not lose heart in doing good, for in due time we will reap if we do not grow weary.”* ‭‭Galatians‬ ‭6:8-9‬ ‭NASB‬‬

When our flesh (self-will) is eating really well, it comes be very intense with whatever we've been feeding it. Physically, if it's been feeding on a lot of sugar, it will start to crave sweets more and more, and in the same way - if it has been feeding on gossip articles online, for example, I believe it will become very strong in its judgment of others. If it has been constantly feeding on material things - constantly gazing at the latest products, gadgets, and designer clothes - it will desire them more and become more covetous. THE CURRENT SEASON

The same goes with fear. In this current season, I believe that many (Christians even) can be paralyzed by fear if they are feeding their mind on the multitudes of negative things the unbelieving world is telling them - maybe it's their friends, coworkers, relatives, or online feeds which preach fear, doom and gloom, instead of God's Word of His love for us, and His sovereign control of every situation.

Proverbs 4:23 says that it's critical to guard our heart diligently. I understand my "heart" to mean: my inner thoughts, intentions, and desires. I used to think that it wasn't possible to change what I desire, and what I unconsciously think about all day... that it sort of just, "happens." But I've learned that that's absolutely not true.

I've seen that ****much of what I desire and unconsciously think about today, is the result of what I've been recently choosing to 'sow' into my mind for the past week, or month, or so****.

What we choose to feed or withhold from our flesh *today* has a direct effect on the strength of our flesh *tomorrow*.

THE NEWS

We have to be careful what we are feeding on in the news, for example. I've noticed that a lot of the news today isn't really news (facts about what's going on in the world) - it's merely people expressing their opinion about something - bashing this politician here, criticizing this nation there, guessing at what's going to happen here. It's similar to junk food - it ruins the appetite for what's really healthy, rather than building us up as God's Word does.

It's not right to say that we should be 'ignorant' and refrain from reading the news altogether. Even Jesus was informed about current events - Luke 13:4. But I've seen for myself, I need to be able to know when the Holy Spirit is saying, "This is not the right article to read", or when He's saying, "That's enough."

Col 3:15 *"Let the peace of God be your referee"* (And listen to His whistle-blows when you're about to go out of bounds!)

I remember being over at someone’s house and a boy was playing video games there. The Dad said to his son who had been playing video games, “Ok son that’s enough for now.” It was a good example to me of "moderation." Have you ever heard the Lord say “That’s enough”, and stopped doing something? Maybe it was an unprofitable conversation, or spending a long time on the internet... not anything sinful... just the excess of something. If the Lord tells you "that’s enough" would you stop immediately? I see that's the question I often run into throughout many days in some area or another. The Holy Spirit is not being a 'killjoy'... (God's commands are not meant to make me miserable) - it's for my protection. If I continue past that point, then I enter the realm of sowing to the flesh, and the flesh will get stronger, and I will be feeling the consequences of it later. Maybe in intense fear, or preoccupation with something... or a lack of desire for the Lord and His Word. ****"Junk food" may be lawful, but in excess it will always ruin our appetite for what's healthy.****

But If we regularly feed on time with the Lord, and His Word, good teaching, books and sermons, etc - we will find our spirit very strong, and our mind being transformed (Romans 12:2). Our mind is constantly being transformed with what we feed it. And the amazing result is "eternal life" as it says: "*the one who sows to the Spirit will from the Spirit reap eternal life."* And eternal life, we know is intimate fellowship with our Father, and with Jesus; to know Him (John 17:3). If we are feeding on the right things we will grow in knowing the Lord, and we will grow to be strong.

Daniel 11:32 *"Those who know their God will be strong" (in spirit)*

May the Lord help us to be wise and sow to the Spirit today, and be careful what we are feeding on. So that our mind and our heart can be transformed to think and see things like He does, and then we will feel like He does about things - free from fear, walking above the storm of panic which the world is caught up in today. And this comes though denying the small desires of the flesh everyday that contradict God’s will, and obeying the quiet whisper of the Spirit in every little thing - even 'This isn't the right article to read'. It’s much better to obey the whispers of the Spirit today than to try to quiet down our screaming flesh later!

‬‬

*“Say to the righteous that it will go well with them, For they will eat the fruit of their actions.”* Isaiah‬ ‭3:10‬ ‭NASB
